Now that we have our browser loaded and we've actually loaded a page,
we need to be able to interact with that page.
The first thing that we need to do is to be able to find the
elements on that page so we can reference them.
Here, you can see all of the different finders that we can use to find elements,
and we can use any of those to find an element within that page.
The reason why there's so many of these is because you don't always have
control over the HTML on that page or the elements themselves.
So you might have to be a little bit creative in trying
to get a hold of a specific element.
But there's almost always a way to get a hold of an
element on that page programmatically.
Let's look at some of the more common ways that we can find these.
Then we'll look at coding and how to do this.
The first one is to find it by ClassName.
ClassName is just a CSS class name.
So if we have an element that has a unique class name, we can use that.
If there's multiple matches,
we can index that so that we can find the first one or the second one.
Most of these methods for finding an element will allow that as well.
The next one is ID.
ID is probably going to be the most useful and absolute one.
If you have an ID for an element on the page,
you can be pretty sure that's the one that you want.
This is definitely one of the preferred methods.
Another one is Name.
You can use the Name property of an HTML element and it
might just act like it does with ID.
TagName is a pretty general case.
This is the actual name of that tag.
For example, if you had a table or anchor,
that would be an A, you could just use the actual tag name.
Probably in this case,
you're going to want to index this to figure out which tag you're talking
about unless there happens to be just one tag on that page.
We can also use a CssSelector, and this is one of the more advanced ways.
You can basically use any CSS that you would use to
identify an element when you created the CSS.
For example,
you might actually use the CSS that is used to change the appearance of an
element to actually select that element in your test.
The LinkText is another useful one.
When you're trying to get a link,
you can actually just use the real text of that link.
And the PartialLinkText is going to just be a partial of that link
text, and you can do just a partial match on it.
And lastly, another really useful one is XPath. This is one of the more
advanced ones, but it's also often the one you're going to turn to when none
of the other ways work. You can almost always use some kind of XPath
expression to get a particular element that you want on a page. Although it
may not be clear if you use XPath, so definitely when you're trying to find
that element on the page,
you'll want to use the most clear one as possible, and ID is usually going to
be the most absolute and clearest way to approach that.
In many cases, you're going to have to resort to different ones,
especially if you don't have control over the source code of
that page or if you're testing something that is existing and
you can't modify those pages.
But if you're working with developers or you are a
developer and you can modify the page,
you really want to make sure that you put IDs on everything because it makes automation so much simpler.